Dear Spokes,


75 days, 4,037 miles, 171,691 feet, 6 tattoos, and more stories than miles. Here's what we saw,


1 Our First Flat
Cycling across the country means constant gear maintenance, especially in preparation for long and rural roads. Luckily, tune-ups love company. On wheels, help is never far away.
1_1 Tazewell, Virginia


2 Introducing Chrissy
Meet Chrissy, our support vehicle. She’s a Chrysler Pacifica just as important as our bikes. She carries everything for our team of eight: learning festival supplies, clothing, tools, food, sleeping bags, and more. Packing her is a…labor of love.
2_1 Almont, Colorado
2_2 Tazewell, Virginia
On days we are biking, there will always be one person on driving duty. This responsibility rotates across our team. Our driver handles all the logistics of the day (and days to come) while our team powers through a ride. This includes water and snack breaks, learning festival coordination, blogging, route-planning, dinner duty, tent set-up, and more.
2_3 Lexington, Virginia


3 Learning Festivals
Spokes’ mission is to bring exciting, high quality STEM workshops to students across the country, especially those in underserved areas. Our team brings some of our favorite lessons growing up and from MIT. These lessons are always project based, so students have a tangible form of knowledge to take home. Here, I’m teaching 3D printing with Hank. Students learn how to use modeling software to design and print their own bubble wand by the end of the session.
3_1 Hazard, Kentucky


JD teaching students how to build their own speakers, with nothing more than a magnet, copper wire, 3D printed diaphragm, and microcontroller.
3_2 Hazard, Kentucky


Rebecca teaching students how to make concrete. She uses the analogy of rice krispies – adhering different granularities together – to recreate one of the key chemical reactions that leads to more sustainable concrete. 
3_3 Hazard, Kentucky


Spokes teaching at a juvenile detention center in Washington DC, under the direction of Judge Zia Faruqui’s team. Here, we taught DNA extraction using strawberries, basic computer programming, and 3D printing. Importantly, this learning festival was as much about teaching as it was exchanging life stories.  
3_4 Washington, D.C.


4 Playtime
We heard that play is good for brain development, so we got lots in. Whenever we tired of cycling, we’d hop into lakes, kayak, do pull-ups in the park…anything to keep our upper body muscle mass. But mostly, we’d chat, or as Rebecca says, “gab.” You haven’t lived if you haven’t had a good gab on a sunny patch of grass.
4_1 Hermann, Missouri[a]
4_2 Draper, VA
4_3 Lexington, Virginia
4_4 Lexington, Virginia


5 Asleep under the stars
Many of our routes went through beautiful state and national parks, giving us clear night skies. These evenings were spent stargazing and eating s’mores; we felt very small already on our bikes through this big country, and even smaller on these particular nights.
5_1 Big Meadows Campground, Shenandoah National Park
5_2 Escalante Petrified Forest State Park


6 Pets of Spokes
Along our route, our team was hosted by alumni, Warm Showers hosts, and old friends of previous Spokes’ cohorts. Being adopted for the night is special. You step into someone’s slice of the world with all of its intimacy and small idiosyncrasies. We can’t thank our hosts enough for that privilege. And as the evening comes to a close, even furry strangers inevitably become furry friends.
6_1 Saint Louis, Missouri
6_2 Benicia, California 
6_3 Linden, Virginia
6_4 Newton, Kansas


7 New Friends
Humans weren’t our only curious companions. We were chased by dogs, stared down by cows (and bison), raced by horses, slithered past by lizards, all seemingly asking where we were headed next.
7_1 Campton, Kentucky
7_2 Winchester, Kentucky
7_3 Tazewell, Virginia
7_4 Yoder, Colorado
7_5 Buena Vista, Colorado
7_6 Eureka, Nevada
7_7 Draper, Virginia
7_8 Capitol Reef National Park, Utah


8 Food is Fuel
Burning 5,000+ calories a day convinced us to stuff our gullet with everything America had to offer. P.S. Root beer floats are always a safe option if you want to win a few brownie points with Amulya.
8_1 Jefferson City, Kansas


No food is as comforting as a home cooked meal. Our hosts Howard and Lynn served us an ice cream sundae bar, chock full of fruit and brownies, to close off a phenomenal dinner. This one was one for the books!
8_2 Roanoke, Virginia


A 12-flavor soft serve off the side of a highway, sign me up. All those artificial flavors swirled together taste an awful lot like plain vanilla.
8_3 Sassafras, Kentucky


Jess defeated by an all you can eat buffet. I convinced our team that the highest calorie per dollar option was Chinese, piled high. Delicious, but at what cost?
8_4 Sacramento, California


9 More Learning Festivals!
Spokes set up seven learning festivals, teaching ~200 students in their own communities, at libraries, museums, after-school clubs, and special facilities across the country. Some of our learning toolkits were also used in parallel during a 2-week summer camp at MIT. Thank you to the Jameel World Education Lab and MIT Open Learning for helping us reach students in over six states! 
9_1 Lake Tahoe, California
9_2 Lake Tahoe, California
9_3 Lake Tahoe, California
9_4 Fallon, Nevada


10 Getting friendly with cows
For many of our team, this was our first time seeing concentrated animal feeding operations and more broadly, industrial scale agriculture. Given that these operations and facilities are such important parts of our food supply chain, I wanted to learn as much as possible. I spent one morning with Ed, a farmer from Lakin, who graciously took me to visit a 32,000 acre farm with over 5,000 dairy cows. 
10_1 Ingalls, Colorado
10_2 Ulysses, Kansas
10_3 Lakin, Kansas


Being in cow and horse country, we got front-row seats to rodes, the greatest parties ever thrown. Tie-down roping, bull riding, and Roman racing (a cowgirl stands with one foot on each of two horses while galloping around the arena). Every day is a reminder that it’s Jolene’s world, and we’re just living in it.
10_4 Colorado Springs, Colorado


11 Fourth of July
Cycling means you get to experience a country street by street. That type of patient observation reveals America’s beauty and flaws in full nuance. This experience made July 4th feel extra special. We celebrated with hot dogs, soda, and sparklers.
11_1 St. John, Kansas
11_2 St. John, Kansas


Cleo, our international rider (France), getting in the spirit.
11_3 Dodge City, Kansas


12 Mother Nature makes herself known
Torrential rain made for a flooded road, loose electrical wires, a cyclist about to get the bejeezus scared out of her. Do not attempt an impromptu river crossing! I learned my lesson the hard (and scary) way. 
12_1 Reading, Kansas
12_2 Reading, Kansas


Hank and JD were caught in a violent thunderstorm, so they scrambled into a ditch by the roadside while car alarms blared and the prairie grass whipped around them. Meanwhile, I was inside a gas station a mile back, snacking on a 100 Grand bar and solving riddles with the cashier (sometimes it pays to be slow). Cleo was long gone, too fast for the storm to catch.
12_3 Walton, Kansas


13 What does America run on?
No, not Dunkin’. Along our route, we saw racecars whipping on dirt tracks, powered by diesel. We stayed in the heart of coal country. And we witnessed the transition to clean energy. Energy became a surprisingly poignant theme. I could track much of a community’s dynamics by its energy source. Experiencing the spectrum of energy sources and adoption rates, I gained a real appreciation for the fear of being left behind, alongside the giddy excitement of grand infrastructure projects rolling out across the country. I hadn’t been exposed to either, having grown up in a small state by the Coast.
13_1 Garden City, Kansas
13_2 Garden City, Kansas
13_3 Tazewell, Virginia


14 We Cross the Continent(al Divide)
The tallest point of our 75-day ride. Huffing and puffing our way up the Continental Divide in Colorado, where water flows to two different oceans: the Atlantic and the Pacific.
14_1 Cottonwood Pass, Continental Divide, Colorado
14_2 Cottonwood Pass, Continental Divide, Colorado
14_3 Cottonwood Pass, Continental Divide, Colorado


I felt like we earned Colorado. Gliding down winding roads at 30 miles per hour, several layers of the mountain range revealing itself, more shades of green than I had ever seen. Cycling is at least 80% pain, 20% gain. Colorado was 100% gain.
14_4 Somerset, Colorado


15 Midsummer
The first sign that Colorado was going to be a mother to us was her fruit. The Palisade peach is a ridiculously juicy and sweet variety that owes its flavor to the temperature differential between day and night. The next sign was when we pitched our tents between orchard rows, sleeping among apricot and peach trees. Someone pinch me (no don’t).
15_1 Hotchkiss, Colorado
15_2 Hotchkiss, Colorado


16 Unincorporated Utah
Traversing Utah gave me a feeling of real wildness and solitude. The green mountains and lush riverbanks of Colorado gave way to a Martian country of dust and sandstone.
16_1 Bryce Canyon National Park, Utah
16_2 Arches National Park, Utah
16_3 Arches National Park, Utah


Utah was devoid of any signs of life, save for eight cyclists much in need of water. Thank you to the driver who dropped us a few bottles as a lifeline!
16_4 Moab, Utah
16_5 Green River, Utah


Baker, Nevada is a quiet town of 50 that unexpectedly grew its population by 16% in a day on account of some nerds rolling in. They serenaded us that night.
16_6 Baker, Nevada


17 It’s worth it        the sunsets


My favorite poem, by Peter Chinman, goes:
He thought the dogs were chasing lemons
across the lawn until you told him about tennis
see Kentucky before you die kid
it’s worth it        the sunsets


Kentucky had its sunsets, but so did every state we traversed. Just go out and see Kentucky, see Kansas, see California, see Utah, just see before you die kid. And when you see a sunset, stop and stay with it for a while. 


17_1 Eureka, Nevada
17_2 Gun Creek, Illinois


18 The Friends we made along the way
75 days later and what do you have? Friendships for life and more bike rides on the to-do list than mileage left in my calves. Cycling across the country is a singular experience that no one except those who’ve done it can come close to understanding. Dear Spokes, I’m so glad I experienced this with you. Your companionship has made me a better person in every way, and I hope my company can do the same, even in small part. Moreover, I wish this experience on everyone. Not exactly the cycling 4,037 miles part, but the opportunity and dedication to see your friends with clarity and generosity first, your neighbors with double that charge, and of course, the spirit of adventure. Adventure local!
18_1 San Francisco, California
18_2 San Francisco, California
18_3 Lamar, Colorado


Yours, 
Sophia J. Wang
[a]unsure